Generic Asset Store proposal (#176)
kyma-project/community: sig-and-wg/sig-core/proposals/asset-store-proposal.md

# Asset Store

Created on 2019-01-03 by Lukasz Gornicki (@derberg).

## Status

Proposed on 2019-01-04

## Motivation

1. Have a generic solution for storing in s3 like storage any kind of asset: zip file, markdown file, PNG or JS (JavaScript)
2. Have a storage solution not locked to one vendor, like AWS S3 only, or like to Minio on-premise only
3. Have a storage solution that not only stores the file but also exposes it directly to internet

## Use case

1. Storage for documentation and related images

> 2. Storege for API specifications

Reviewer: Storage

Asset resource mandatory information is the:
- reference info about the source file/object/asset location that must be fetched by Asset controller with 3 different modes:
  - `single` - the link points directly to asset that needs to be fetched
  - `index` - the link to index.yaml file that contains reference to files that need to be separately fetch from a given relative location
  - `package` - the link to the zip/tar file that must be unziped before it is uploaded
```
#sample of index file with markdown and assets files
apiVersion: v1
files:
  - name: 01-overview.md
    metadata:
      title: MyOverview
      type: Overview
  - name: 02-details.md
    metadata:
      title: MyDetails
      type: Details
  - name: 03-installation.md
    metadata:
      title: MyInstallation
      type: Tutorial
  - name: assets/diagram.svg
```
- reference to the bucket where the asset should be stored
```
apiVersion: assetstore.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Asset
metadata:
  name: my-package-assets
  namespace: default
spec:
  source:
    mode: single # or index or package
    url: https://some.domain.com/main.js
  bucketRef:
    name: my-bucket
```

The optional information is the:

> - ConfigMap reference, that points to the ConfigMap that introduces [a new file](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/resources/core/charts/service-catalog-addons/charts/instances-ui/templates/configmap.yaml) that is also sent to the bucket along with other files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A ConfigMap reference that points to the ConfigMap that introduces [a new file](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/resources/core/charts/service-catalog-addons/charts/instances-ui/templates/configmap.yaml) which is also sent to the bucket along with other files.
```

> - Asset validation webhook reference to a service that performs the validation of fetched assets before they are uploaded to the bucket. The use cases are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An Asset validation webhook reference to a service that performs the validation of fetched assets before they are uploaded to the bucket. The use cases are:
```

>   - validation of specific file against some specification

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Validation of a specific file against some specification.
```

>   - security validation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Security validation
```

```
apiVersion: assetstore.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Asset
metadata:
  name: my-direct-assets
  namespace: default
spec:
  source:
    direct: https://some.domain.com/my.json
    validationWebhookService:
        name: swagger-operations-svc
        namespace: default
        endpoint: "/validate"
    rewrites:
      - keyvalue: 
          basePath: /test/v2
  bucketRef:
    name: my-bucket
status:
  phase: Ready # Failed/Pending
  reason: Validation failure
  message: "file is not valid against provided json schema"
```

> - Asset mutation webhook reference to a service that acts similar to the validation service mentioned above, but mutates the asset instead of just validating. The use case is for example the asset rewriting through `regex` operation or `keyvalue` (like for example modification in json specification)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An Asset mutation webhook reference to a service that acts similarly to the validation service mentioned above. The difference is that it mutates the asset instead of just validating it. The use case is, for example, the asset rewriting through the `regex` operation or `keyvalue`, or modification in the json specification).
```

> ## Asset Validation Webhook details

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Asset validation webhook details
```

> Asset Store must provide a flexible way of validating the asset before they are uploaded to the bucket. Different use cases bring different validation requirements. The best way is to do it by introducing a webhook that will receive an asset for validation and reply to the controller with defined status schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Asset Store must provide a flexible way of validating the asset before they are uploaded to the bucket. Different use cases bring different validation requirements. The best way is to do it by introducing a webhook that will receive an asset for validation and reply to the controller with a defined status schema.
```

> 1. Controller calls the `/validate` endpoint of the given service in a given namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The controller calls the `/validate` endpoint of the given service in a given Namespace.
```

```
validationWebhookService:
  name: swagger-operations-svc
  namespace: default
  metadata:
    pattern: \json|yaml
  endpoint: "/validate"
```

> 2. The service gets the following payload and by default must reply within 1sec:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The service gets the following payload and, by default, it must reply within 1 second:
```

```
{
    name: my-direct-assets
    namespace: default
    metadata:
      pattern: \json|yaml
    assets: {
      name1: "content",
      name2: "content"
    }
}
```
3. The controller:

>    - times out after 1sec because of no response and updates the status of the Asset to False

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Times out after 1 second because of no response, and updates the status of the Asset to `False`.
```

>    - gets response with successful or failing validation in the following for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Gets the response with successful or failing validation in the following form:
```

```
{
   status: {
     name1: {
       status: Failure,
       message: "much more details of the failure"
     },
     name2: {
       status: Success,
       message: "much more details"
     }
   }
}
```

> 4. If at least one asset failed the validation the status of the Asset is set to False and proper message about a given asset is added to the status. Otherwise the status is set to True and asset uplodaded to the bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. If at least one asset failed the validation, the status of the Asset is set to `False` and the proper message about a given asset is added to the status. Otherwise, the status is set to `True` and asset is uploaded to the bucket.
```

## Asset mutation webhook details

> Asset Store must provide a flexible way of mutating the asset before they are uploaded to the bucket. Different use cases bring different mutation requirements. Like in case of validation it can be solved by webhook solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Asset Store must provide a flexible way of mutating the asset before they are uploaded to the bucket. Different use cases bring different mutation requirements. Similarly to the validation case, it can be solved by a webhook solution.
```

> 1. Controller calls the `/mutate` endpoint of the given service in a given namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The controller calls the `/mutate` endpoint of the given service in a given Namespace.
```
